two and a half months into Israel's war
on Gaza our Focus this week is on the
attacks on journalism there the number
killed by Israeli forces is staggering
there's no shortage of evidence that
they've been targeted looking for a
beachfront property in Gaza Israeli
developers have been posting their
post-war plans for new luxury
settlements online and evangelicals in
America Christian zionists with
broadcast networks that have faith in is
as a program about the global news media
we have covered assaults on press
Freedom by governments around the world
for more than a decade and a half now
never in that time have we witnessed a
war on journalists like the one Israel
is waging right now in Gaza Israel has
barred the international media from
entering the strip so firsthand
reporting on the onslaught there has
been left to Palestinian Ians already
locked into the occupied territory they
are documenting their own genocide the
number of journalists slaughtered since
October 7th the speed at which that is
occurring is shocking according to
gaza's government media office Israel
has now killed 97 of them that's about
10 per week but then Israel has a longt
trck record of killing Palestinian
journalists that has been a defining
feature of its occupation what is
different this time around is that with
the eyes of the world on Gaza Israel's
war on Palestinian journalism is no
longer a news story that's going under
the radar it's there for all to
see no one wants to start a piece like
this with the story of one of their own
as Al jazer arabic's bureau chief in
Gaza wael dhu is the face of the network
on this
story his cameraman was suar Abu AK
until he was killed last week in a drone
attack in Han Yunis in southern
Gaza it was like being hit by a tornado
three paramedics were marted immediately
and samood was wounded in the lower body
severely I fell to the ground and I got
shrapnel here my arm went right through
another piece of my shoulder and two my
thigh I tried to hide in one of the
abandoned houses but I realized if I hid
I'd bleed to death so I stumbled towards
the ambulance I asked the paramedics to
rescue
s he said we can't we have to save your
life
first and when his body was found it was
clear that the Rockets had targeted him
again even though he had tried to crawl
towards the street in an attempt to
survive Al just Z says its cameraman was
left to bleed to death for more than 5
hours as Israeli forces prevented
ambulances and rescue workers from
reaching him in More Than A Century of
warfare including World War II there is
no precedent for the rate at which
Israel has killed journalists in its war
on Gaza according to the government
media office there 98 Palestinian media
workers have been killed the new
york-based committee to protect
journalists puts the number at 61 using
the lower cpj figure and comparing it to
another exceptionally dangerous War to
cover Iraq 204 media workers lost their
lives there in a conflict that lasted 8
years at this rate the journalist's
death toll in Gaza will exceed araqs in
about 8 months which begs the allegation
that having locked the international
media out of the strip to prevent them
from documenting the human Carnage
Israel is targeting the Palestinian
journalists it has locked in it is
extraordinarily disturbing as a
journalist uh to have a sense that
certain governments because it most
certainly is not just the Israelis the
US is guilty of this uh as well and many
others be able to kill journalists with
complete and total impunity look it's a
war
zone things happen in war journalists
are killed in war but this sheer level
of journalists killed is unprecedented
and it does raise a significant number
of
questions situation has become very
clear in 2 and a half months of War we
have now lost roughly 100 Palestinian
journalists and this reflects clear
targeting like in our case for example
there was no one else where we were
except for us we were there for 2 to 3
hours drones were roaming in the sky
watching our movements and following us
and despite this they targeted us
directly all this gives us confirmation
that Palestinian journalists are being
directly targeted in this
war at the very least if you support
press freedoms and freedoms of
journalists you need to make sure that
they can live
right that journalists have the
conditions needed to do their important
work but the very very basic
first condition is that International
humanitarian law protections for them
are enforced as we're we're getting
[Applause]
into oh my god did you hear
that oh my
God that's the hospital that's the
hospital that's the hospital Israel has
a history of disregarding Palestinian
civilian life life and Israel has a
history unfortunately of killing
Palestinian journalists who are wearing
um vests and helmets marked press and
carrying equipment that clearly marks
them as journalists and this is history
that goes back
decades a track record that is long and
deadly earlier this year the committee
to protect journalists documented 20
such cases since 2001 journalists 18 of
them Palestinian killed by Israeli
forces with zero
accountability what is happening now in
Gaza follows the same pattern on a
gargantuan scale as always Israel denies
targeting media workers insisting that
journalism in Gaza is mere collateral
damage and in Washington the White House
Echoes that line through its National
Security spokesman I've not seen any
indication whatsoever that Israel was
going after journalists Kirby said that
two months ago when 24 journalists had
been killed and he keeps saying it
there's a double standard at play
American opinion makers who are quick to
condemn governments they oppose for
abusing press Freedom have a
demonstrably different standard for
their Israeli
allies we sometimes have um the
International Community being selective
about which journalists it cares about
like Russia and Ukraine where the United
States was appropriately outspoken the
deliberate targeting of civilians
journalists and others would constitute
a war crime so it's something that we're
very focused on but there has been less
outspokenness um when Palestinian and
Lebanese journalists have been killed
the United States should be consistent
in its insistence on protections for
journalists when armies disobey the laws
of war and there are no consequences
they will continue disobeying the laws
of war and that's what we're seeing here
we can say pretty openly the Western
media does have a western bias
and the attention that is going to be
put on Palestinian journalists dying in
Gaza is not going to be proportional to
the attention that gets put on something
that that happens to a western
journalist that is the unfortunate
nature of the world that we live in we
all need to take a hard look at
ourselves and confront our own bias even
if we don't want to accept that we have
one I just was going to picture this
you're a gauen journalist and your
coverage is making an impct
finding
audiences like moataz AA who has 17
million followers on
[Music]
Instagram hello
hello hello how are you your phone rings
and a mysterious voice speaking in
English with an Israeli accent tells you
to stop your coverage or to turn it
against Hamas can you post story maybe
condemning Hamas so this can
what he tells you or you suspect that he
is an intelligence operative and he
knows where you live where your family
lives dozens of your colleagues or their
loved ones have already been killed and
you are well aware that some of them got
a call just like that one before the
bomb
hit when you get a phone call from some
shady character on an unknown number I
mean that is beyond chill other
journalists have also stated that they
have been told specifically be careful
you know we're targeting your area but
also not so subtly alluding to the fact
of we're targeting you it's really um
you know especially sort of horrifying
that one should be in conversation with
a nameless faceless person with these
kinds of threats this knowledge of who
you are and where you are it
demonstrates the overarching power
dynamics here where Israel has so much
information about Palestinians is on the
ground and poses this you know
everpresent threat and Palestinians
nonetheless are doing their work and um
and and
persevering the way W El dhu
perseveres 7 weeks ago he lost his
immediate family his wife son daughter
and a grandchild all killed by an
Israeli air strike while Sheltering at a
refugee
camp now he has lost a close colleague
hu has every reason to stay out of the
field recover from his wounds in a
hospital or some supposedly safer space
but he's still out there covering the
story and as of this writing still doing
the
job it simply isn't possible to sit in a
hospital bed while all this is happening
in Gaza because we have to remain loyal
to the blood of those who have been
killed and to our mission document in
this historic and exceptional moment
that Gaza is going
through the alternative is what to sit
at home with what is left of my family
you could be hit by a missile at any
moment as is happening now in the
streets in the Alleyways and refugee
camps of
Gaza and maybe become a martyr maybe
disabled staying at home will not offer
protection
anyway because there is simply nowhere
safe in
Gaza
Israeli officials have made no secret of
their intention to level Gaza and empty
the strip of Palestinians now some
Israeli business interests are sharing
their plans for the territory once the
bombardment stops Flo Phillips is here
with more Richard let's start with one
of the latest examples of genocidal
rhetoric we've seen coming from Israeli
politicians since October
7th that was the head of a local Council
suggesting Nazi Germany of all places
had some ideas the Israelis could put to
use against Palestinians that kind of
talk once limited to the political
Fringe has become mainstream in Israel
including from journalists on some of
the most watched news channels in the
country celebrating the devastation in
[Music]
Gaza
and the settler movement which has
placed 700,000 Israelis in the West Bank
in complete contravention of
international law now has its eyes on
Gaza a coalition of settler groups met
to talk about that last
month this past week har zahav an
Israeli real estate firm heavily
involved in the West Bank posted a
proposal to build beachfront homes for
Israelis in Gaza zahav CEO later told
the Israeli newspaper haret that the
proposal was in fact satirical and that
though they do indeed support the
project it's quote the Israeli State's
decision if that was the company's idea
of a joke it hasn't gone down well on
social media except with certain
Israelis who see an opportunity in Gaza
in what more and more people around the
world see as a genocide thanks
Flo the White House continues to back
the Netanyahu government echoing its
talking points vetoing un ceasefire
resolutions and ramping up its arms
exports the Biden Administration is
doing all of that while keeping a wary
eye on the US presidential election
coming up next year it's not the Jewish
vote the White House is worried about
there are only about 8 million American
Jews and about half that number of
American Muslims a far greater concern
to the Biden Administration are American
evangelicals Christians there are
roughly 80 million of them a lot of them
in swing States many call themselves
Christian zionists they back Israel to
the hilt and they've been far less
critical of this war than many American
Jews have been to get a feel for that
just tune in to a Conservative Christian
radio or television station sample the
output the listening posts Ryan Cole's
now on the media side of the Christian
Zionist movement in America that's been
spreading the word on Israel's war on
Gaza
there aren't words to describe what
happened on October 7th other than the
face of evil was revealed for the entire
world to see and we stand as one with
you with Israel the October 7th attack
by Hamas and the start of Israel's most
devastating war on Gaza in history was a
galvanizing moment for Conservative
Christian broadcasters in the United
States the Lord talking to Israel will
keep you from all evil he will keep your
life I want to say to people it's time
for you to get to Israel and when you
get here you are in this place as a
Watchman on the wall there have been
calls for Global prayer Gatherings
fundraising drives to buy bulletproof
vests we heard the need for these
life-saving protective vests the ADF
doesn't have enough with the hundreds of
thousands of reservists and so than
across the Conservative Christian
landscape the message from Christian
zionists has been loud and clear this is
not just a suggestion that we should
pray for Israel this is a Biblical
mandate that we should pray for the
Peace of Jerusalem Christian Zionism is
a belief that Israel plays a key
prophetic role in The Return of Jesus so
Christian zionists believe that
everything that happens with regard to
the state of Israel from its founding in
194 8 to the war that is occurring right
now in Gaza are fulfillments of Prophecy
in the Bible tonight Christians here in
Israel and in the United States and in
Canada and all over the world are
watching what's happening and asking
critical questions is this horrific war
in Gaza part of end times Bible prophecy
every time since the founding of Israel
when there have been major Wars uh
American evangelicals who are interested
in prophecy have gotten very excited
about the possibility that this war is
the war that signals the beginning of
the return of Jesus to Earth which they
believe will happen and they believe
Israel and Wars conducted by Israel will
be Central to that every time there's a
major conflict in the Middle East uh the
the prophecy talk really ramps up and I
know everybody's been saying that
forever
but it's kind of looking like you know
Jesus might be coming
the talk of a holy land promised by God
to Jews his chosen people an apocalyptic
War signaling the end times and the
resurrection of Jesus who would save all
Christians sounds to many as Fantastical
and weak grounds on which to base an
understanding of global
geopolitics however this is a
fundamental theological belief of more
than 80 million Americans who call
themselves Evangelical Christians many
of whom first fir ly support Zionism the
political ideology underpinning the
state of Israel led by charismatic and
deeply political preachers who
understood the power of the pulpit and
transferred it to the airwaves through
radio and TV conservative Christians
have had a significant impact on us
politics for decades their success as
broadcasters meant presidential
candidates from Ronald Reagan to Donald
Trump sought their endorsement not only
it's so good to have you with us and
often sought their policy input too
evangelicals really punch politically
far above their weight so white
evangelicals are Far and Away the
biggest supporters of Donald Trump for
example and despite representing a small
proportion of the population they do
turn out to vote so yes they do have a
lot of power they also have a lot of
lobbying
organizations and uh one that's
immediately going to come to mind in
this context would be of course Pastor
John hagi's Christians United for Israel
those of you who are watching Across
America and around the world today the
Jewish people are at War for their very
survival John haggy is one of the most
well-known of the prophecy oriented
conservative evangelicals he's been
doing this for many decades he's been
very involved in political organizing
for Israel Israel You Are Not Alone
Israel You're Not Alone Isel you what I
noticed about his message when he was at
the pro-israel rally is that he really
downplayed the parts of what he believes
that would be offensive to American Jews
so he doesn't say uh anything about you
know this is the end times are coming
this Jesus is going to come again Jews
have to convert in order to be saved and
he doesn't say anything like that the
notion of Jews needing to give up their
religion having to convert to
Christianity
if they want their soul saved at the end
times doesn't come up too much in the
Evangelical broadcast since October 7th
it almost doesn't need stating since
it's a core part of the end times
narrative those who believe it have been
taught that non-christians simply won't
survive the other reason it's not said
explicitly is because it's anti-semitic
indeed some of the most prominent
Christian zionists have at one point or
another been caught saying something
anti-Semitic and yet Israeli leaders
especially prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu have courted these preachers
and their
congregations Reverend Franklin Graham
the first major Evangelical leader to
visit Israel since the War Began
Franklin Graham he's the head of the
Billy Graham Evangelistic Association
now that is an organization with a lot
of money influence and power and he
heads this organization called Samaritan
purse so Graham after the October sth
attacks he indeed met with Netanyahu so
what does Netanyahu get out of a meeting
like that a photo op like that well it's
it's a nod to American right-wing
Christians that he is their friend right
they see him and Franklin Graham getting
along it reinforces this sort of special
relationship the Bible says that there
is a Time For Peace and a time for war
this is a time for war Netanyahu is
definitely speaking to evangelicals when
he quotes the Bible Netanyahu is
undoubtedly aware that for American Jews
this war is becoming increasingly
unpopular and that evangelicals vastly
outnumber Jews in the United States and
exercise a great deal of control over
the Republican party and so keeping that
relationship going is to netanyahu's
Advantage in maintaining his
relationships with Republicans and the
support of America uh for this war
the sprawling network of Conservative
Christian Media Outlets also play a
vital role in cementing support for
Israel's war there are sporadic
expressions of concern and empathy for
Palestinian lives lost but the focus is
by and large on the need for Jews to
defend their land father God of Abraham
Isaac and Jacob we ask that you
accompany Israel's troops into the
battle what sharpens the impact of the
messaging is that it's not all sermons
and group prayer Christian Evangelical
Outlets present a lot of their output as
though it's news on the Battlefront in
Gaza we're learning that Tuesday was one
of the bloodiest days of the war
religious organizations have had an
impact as journalists for quite some
time because they used to be clunky and
awkward now they are much more
professionall looking and they talk
about all the issues of the world and it
allows people to get most of their news
from these Christian sources and to have
that interpretive frame right there the
packaging is a very black and white good
versus evil kind of framing because in
their view the Jews are God's chosen
people and God gave the land to the Jews
any claim to The Land by
Palestinians is wrong and needs to be
defeated so you Christian zionists
therefore support the occupation support
the annexation of more land yes we want
Hamas to be stopped we want it to be
uprooted and and eradicated but if they
won't then we need them removed if they
will leave fine if they will be arrested
fine but they may have to be killed and
so if you knew nothing about that and
Came Upon a sermon or a lecture by a
Christian scientist you would think that
you were looking at a good versus evil
very black and white situation when in
fact it's much more complicated than
[Music]
that and finally this past week a study
of Facebook and Instagram conducted by
Human Rights Watch concluded that the
censorship of content related to
Palestine there is systemic Global and
it fails to meet its human rights due
diligence
responsibilities those platforms are
under the control of their parent
company meta now no one's under any
Illusions about where meta's Allegiance
lies its business model comes first and
foremost which means its advertisers get
a big say in what you see on your feed
about Gaza and what you do not
advertisers can dictate how you
understand this war one way to get
around that is to look beyond what the
platform is recommending the you see
search for what you are interested in
not what advertisers are good with we'll
see you next time here at the listening
post